.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 The FreeBSD Foundation
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Google, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This documentation was written by Pawel Jakub Dawidek under sponsorship
.\" the FreeBSD Foundation.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_2_CLAUSE)
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH CAP_FCNTLS_LIMIT 3 2014-05-07 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
cap_fcntls_limit, cap_fcntls_get \- manage allowed
.BR fcntl (2)
commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/capsicum.h>
.sp
.BI "int cap_fcntls_limit(int " fd ", unsigned int " fcntls ");"
.br
.BI "int cap_fcntls_get(int " fd ", unsigned int *" fcntlsp ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
If a file descriptor is granted the
.B CAP_FCNTL
Capsicum capability right, the list of allowed
.BR fcntl (2)
commands can be selectively reduced (but never expanded) with the
.BR cap_fcntls_limit ()
function.
.PP
A bitmask of allowed
.BR fcntl (2)
commands for a given file descriptor can be obtained
with the
.BR cap_fcntls_get ()
function.
.PP
The following flags may be specified in the
.I fcntls
argument:
.TP
.B CAP_FCNTL_GETFL
Permit
.B F_GETFL
command.
.TP
.B CAP_FCNTL_SETFL
Permit
.B F_SETFL
command.
.TP
.B CAP_FCNTL_GETOWN
Permit
.B F_GETOWN
command.
.TP
.B CAP_FCNTL_SETOWN
Permit
.B F_SETOWN
command.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Both
.BR cap_fcntls_limit ()
and
.BR cap_fcntls_get ()
return zero on success. On error, -1 is returned and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBADF
.I fd
isn't a valid open file descriptor.
.TP
.B EINVAL
An invalid set of commands has been requested in
.IR fcntls .
.TP
.B ENOTCAPABLE
The arguments contain capability rights not present for the given file descriptor (Capsicum
capability rights can only be reduced, never expanded).
.TP
.B EFAULT
The
.I fcntlsp
argument points to an invalid address.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cap_ioctls_limit (3),
.BR cap_rights_limit (3),
.br fcntl (2)
