.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2013 The FreeBSD Foundation
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Google, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This documentation was written by Pawel Jakub Dawidek under sponsorship
.\" from the FreeBSD Foundation.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_2_CLAUSE)
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH CAP_RIGHTS_GET 3 2014-05-21 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
cap_rights_get \- retrieve Capsicum capability rights
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/capsicum.h>
.sp
.BI "int cap_rights_get(int " fd ", struct cap_rights *" rights ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Obtain the current Capsicum capability rights for a file descriptor.
.PP
The function will fill the
.I rights
argument with the capability rights of the
.I fd
descriptor.  The result can be examined with the
.BR cap_rights_init (3)
family of functions.
.PP
The complete list of the capability rights can be found in the
.BR rights (7)
manual page.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR cap_rights_get ()
returns zero on success. On error, -1 is returned and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBADF
.I fd
isn't a valid open file descriptor.
.TP
.B EFAULT
Invalid pointer argument.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following example demonstrates how to limit file descriptor capability
rights and how to obtain them.
.PP
.in +4n
.nf
cap_rights_t setrights, getrights;
int fd;

memset(&setrights, 0, sizeof(setrights));
memset(&getrights, 0, sizeof(getrights));

fd = open("/tmp/foo", O_RDONLY);
if (fd < 0)
    err(1, "open() failed");

cap_rights_init(&setrights, CAP_FSTAT, CAP_READ);
if (cap_rights_limit(fd, &setrights) < 0 && errno != ENOSYS)
    err(1, "cap_rights_limit() failed");

if (cap_rights_get(fd, &getrights) < 0 && errno != ENOSYS)
    err(1, "cap_rights_get() failed");

assert(memcmp(&setrights, &getrights, sizeof(setrights)) == 0);
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cap_rights_limit (3),
.BR cap_rights_init (3),
.BR capsicum (7),
.BR rights (7)
