.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2010 Robert N. M. Watson
.\" Copyright (c) 2012-2013 The FreeBSD Foundation
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Google, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This software was developed at the University of Cambridge Computer
.\" Laboratory with support from a grant from Google, Inc.
.\"
.\" Portions of this documentation were written by Pawel Jakub Dawidek
.\" under sponsorship from the FreeBSD Foundation.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_2_CLAUSE)
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH CAP_RIGHTS_LIMIT 3 2014-05-21 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
cap_rights_limit \- limit Capsicum capability rights
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/capsicum.h>
.sp
.BI "int cap_rights_limit(int " fd ", const cap_rights_t * " rights ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
When a file descriptor is created by a function such as
.BR accept (2),
.BR accept4 (2),
.BR creat (2),
.BR epoll_create (2),
.BR eventfd (2),
.BR mq_open (2),
.BR open (2),
.BR openat (2),
.BR pdfork (2),
.BR pipe (2),
.BR pipe2 (2),
.BR signalfd (2),
.BR socket (2),
.BR socketpair (2)
or
.BR timerfd_create (2),
it implicitly has all Capsicum capability rights.
Those rights can be reduced (but never expanded) by using the
.BR cap_rights_limit ()
function.
Once Capsicum capability rights are reduced, operations on the file descriptor
.I fd
will be limited to those permitted by the
.I rights
argument.
.PP
The
.I rights
argument should be prepared using
.I cap_rights_init (3)
family of functions.
.PP
Capability rights assigned to a file descriptor can be obtained with the
.BR cap_rights_get (3)
function.
.PP
The complete list of the capability rights can be found in the
.BR rights (7)
manual page.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.BR cap_rights_limit ()
returns zero on success. On error, -1 is returned and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EBADF
.I fd
isn't a valid open file descriptor.
.TP
.B EINVAL
An invalid set of rights has been requested in
.IR rights .
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Out of memory.
.TP
.B ENOTCAPABLE
The arguments contain capability rights not present for the given file descriptor (Capsicum
capability rights list can only be reduced, never expanded).
.SH EXAMPLE
The following example demonstrates how to limit file descriptor capability
rights to allow reading only.
.PP
.in +4n
.nf
cap_rights_t rights;
char buf[1];
int fd;

fd = open("/tmp/foo", O_RDWR);
if (fd < 0)
    err(1, "open() failed");

if (cap_enter() < 0)
    err(1, "cap_enter() failed");

cap_rights_init(&setrights, CAP_READ);
if (cap_rights_limit(fd, &setrights) < 0)
    err(1, "cap_rights_limit() failed");

buf[0] = 'X';

if (write(fd, buf, sizeof(buf)) > 0)
    errx(1, "write() succeeded!");

if (read(fd, buf, sizeof(buf)) < 0)
    err(1, "read() failed");
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cap_rights_get(3),
.BR cap_rights_init(3),
.BR capsicum (7),
.BR rights (7)
